# Execute examples from Rd files as `testthat` tests

Reads examples from Rd files and constructs `testthat`-style tests.
`testthat` expectations are built such that

## Usage

``` r
test_examples_as_testthat(
  package,
  path,
  ...,
  test_dir = file.path(tempdir(), "testex-tests"),
  clean = TRUE,
  overwrite = TRUE,
  roxygenize = !is_r_cmd_check() && uses_roxygen2(path),
  reporter = testthat::get_reporter()
)
```

## Arguments

- package:

  A package name whose examples should be tested

- path:

  Optionally, a path to a source code directory to use. Will only have
  an effect if parameter `package` is missing.

- ...:

  Additional argument unused

- test_dir:

  An option directory where test files should be written. Defaults to a
  temporary directory.

- clean:

  Whether the `test_dir` should be removed upon completion of test
  execution. Defaults to `TRUE`.

- overwrite:

  Whether files should be overwritten if `test_dir` already exists.
  Defaults to `TRUE`.

- roxygenize:

  Whether R documentation files should be re-written using `roxygen2`
  prior to testing. When not `FALSE`, tests written in `roxygen2` tags
  will be used to update R documentation files prior to testing to use
  the most up-to-date example tests. May be `TRUE`, or a `list` of
  arguments passed to
  [`roxygen2::roxygenize`](https://roxygen2.r-lib.org/reference/roxygenize.html).
  By default, only enabled when running outside of `R CMD check` and
  while taking `roxygen2` as a dependency.

- reporter:

  A `testthat` reporter to use. Defaults to the active reporter in the
  `testthat` environment or default reporter.

## Value

The result of
[`testthat::source_file()`](https://testthat.r-lib.org/reference/source_file.html),
after iterating over generated test files.

## Details

1.  Each example expression is expected to run without error

2.  Any `testex` expectations are expected to pass

Generally, you won't need to use this function directly. Instead, it is
called by a file generated by
[`use_testex_as_testthat()`](use_testex_as_testthat.md) which will add
any `testex` example tests to your existing `testthat` testing suite.

## Note

It is assumed that this function is used within a `testthat` run, when
the necessary packages are already installed and loaded.

## Examples

``` r
# \donttest{
# library(pkg.example)
path <- system.file("pkg.example", package = "testex")
test_examples_as_testthat(path = path)
#> Test passed with 1 success 😸.
#> Test passed with 1 success 🥳.
#> Test passed with 1 success 😸.
#> Test passed with 1 success 🌈.
#> Test passed with 1 success 🥇.
#> Test passed with 1 success 😸.
#> Test passed with 1 success 😀.
#> Test passed with 1 success 😀.
#> Test passed with 1 success 🎊.
#> Test passed with 1 success 😸.
# }
```
